
There are two major components associated with this system, the Dynace
Object Oriented Extension to C (Dynace) and the Dynace Windows Development
System (WDS).  Dynace will be described first and WDS will be subsequently
described.


Dynace
------
Dynace is a preprocessor, include files and a library which extends the
C or C++ languages with advanced object oriented capabilities, automatic
garbage collection and multiple threads.  Dynace is designed to solve
many of the problems associated with C++ while being easier to learn and
containing more flexible object oriented facilities.  Dynace is able to
add facilities previously only available in languages such as Smalltalk
and CLOS without all the overhead normally associated with those
environments.

Dynace comes with full C source and is portable to Linux, macOS, and
Windows.  Dynace can link with pre-existing C/C++ libraries and can be
easily added to pre-existing C/C++ code in order to incrementally add
Dynace's features.

The benefits of Dynace are 1) it is much easier to manage large projects
with than C++, 2) it offers much more powerful OO facilities (such as
metaclass based from the ground up, garbage collection, etc.) than C++,
3) it adds little to the C syntax and is therefore easier to learn than C++.

Dynace is totally independent of WDS.  What this means is that Dynace is
built independently of WDS and then WDS is built on top of it.  Dynace
can be used without WDS.

WDS
---
The Dynace Windows Development System (WDS) is a Dynace class library
which enables a C programmer with no knowledge of C++, Dynace, the
Windows API or message-driven architecture to write real Windows
applications with an absolute minimum learning curve and number of
lines of code.  In fact, it is possible to become familiar enough with
windows, menus, dialogs and controls using WDS to write a Windows
application after just one day!

The programmer is able to write the application using familiar C in a
familiar procedural fashion.  Instead of taking the usual fifty plus
lines of code necessary to implement a typical ``Hello World'' program,
with WDS it takes four lines of code!  Fully functional menus and
dialogs can be implemented with WDS in a handful of lines instead of the
hundreds it takes using the Windows API or other available tools.

WDS applications run natively on Windows and are also portable to
Linux and macOS via the Wine library.

The benefits of WDS are 1) the learning curve associated with Windows
development is drastically reduced, 2) the development time is drastically
reduced, and 3) the ability to debug, enhance and hand the code off to
a new programmer is drastically increased.

Other elements
--------------

There is an interface to ODBC and OLE.

There is also a close linkage between Dynace, Java and MzScheme.  The
linkage is with MzScheme 103 but could probably be updated pretty
easily.  This system has been tested and used a lot.


--------

Broadly speaking, this system has two primary components as follows:

1. The Dynace language
2. The Windows GUI Development classes

The Dynace language is very portable and includes:

* the kernel (provides the OO features and other language-level facilities)
* DPP (the Dynace pre-processor)
* class library (collection of generic Dynace classes)

The Dynace language stands on its own and is documented in the file named
manual/Dynace.pdf.  It does not require the Windows GUI classes.

The Windows GUI Development classes are a set of Dynace classes that make
developing Windows GUI applications very easy.  These classes are portable
to Linux and macOS via the Wine library.

These classes have been used for many years by commercial Windows
applications and have been updated for 64-bit on both native Windows
and Wine.
